One of the best ways to become a better programmer is to debug other people's code.
It's actually terrible.
I hate going through other people's code and having to debug it, but it's something you have to do and
it makes you a better programmer.
All right.
And that is the idea of this assignment.
This project.
It is a bug hunt.
Essentially what I've done is written a bunch of code.
You can see here and every cell of code contains at least one error.
And what you have to do is go through each of these cells in turn and try to run the code in that cell
and figure out what is the error and how to fix it.
Now sometimes it's a pretty simple error to fix.
Sometimes you have to do a little bit of guesswork and a little bit of mind reading because sometimes
there are situations where Python doesn't explicitly throw an error but you can guess that the result
of the code, the output of the code, is probably not what I had intended when I was writing it.
All right so I hope you enjoy this project.
I think it's should be a lot of fun. If you haven't already,
then now is the opportunity to pause the video so you can work through this on your own and then come
back.
And now I'm going to go through this.
So my general strategy for these kinds of things is just to start by immediately running the code to
see what happens.
So here is one of these cases that I said that Python didn't actually throw an error; we didn't actually
make any explicit coding errors.
However, when I look at this code it kind of seems like what the person who wrote this code wanted to
do was to print x plus y.
So the arithmetic equation x plus y which is one plus two.
In fact these are set to be strings.
So the plus sign is interpreted here as concatenation.
So this is actually not really the number 12.
This is the string.
1 2.
So I think that what the person who wrote this code wanted to do was something like this and get an
answer of three.
All right.
So there's that.
Now let's move on to the next one.
Again we start by running this cell. Now the first error that we see is that the name math is not defined
and this is an error that you've seen multiple times.
And essentially we just have to import the math function into the python workspace so I'm going to say
from IPython display import math.
All right.
So it seems like that should take care of things, because the error was about the math function.
So now I run this code again and now we get rack one two.
Now you might remember from when I gave you a brief introduction to latex coding and integrating
latex coding with Python coding, that you actually need two slashes here.
So now let's try this again.
All right.
This looks good.
This one is done.
Let's move to the next one.
Here we see another display.
So another case where we are trying to integrate latex coding with Python coding to make a nice display
huh.
So this error says not enough arguments for format string. So that's not a super helpful error message,
but it does tell us a few keywords that we can look for.
So not enough arguments and then something about a string.
OK.
So if we look at what's going on here you can see that there are three percent G.
So three numbers that are going to be replaced by whatever is in here.
Aha.
And there's only two over here.
So this is going to be presumably X plus Y equals whatever X plus Y equals.
But that's not listed in here.
So here I'm going to write
comma X plus Y.
All right.
And then we get X plus Y equals X plus Y.
And that's four plus five equals nine.
All right.
So it's going pretty well.
Let's move on to the next one.
Now here we see an interesting case: it says frac and then the numerator the denominator equals something.
So but the result says four divided by five equals zero.
Now the formatting looks nice so the formatting isn't the problem.
The substitution isn't the problem.
The problem here is that percent I stands for integer.
Now I don't believe I've actually explicitly told you about that here in previous videos so far in this
section,
but you might already have seen that something was wrong here and then this percent I is different from
the percent g that I typically use.
The other option would be percent s if your X explicitly putting strings into here.
All right.
So it turns out that the solution is just to change this to g which will give us a floating point number.
And these are actually OK to leave as I in this particular case because these are already integers.
However, if you would change this to be 4.5 then this is also going to display incorrectly so therefore
it's probably not a bad idea to change these both to percent G.
All right.
Next one.
Here we get three squares.
So this looks like it says three squared.
Of course that should equal nine but it equals one.
So three times three is not equal to one.
And this notation I briefly introduced you to in a previous video, and basically the problem is that
in Python you indicate power is using a double asterisk.
So three squared equals nine.
All right we've fixed that one as well.
Onto the next one!
Let's see what the problem is here.
And we get an error that says invalid syntax and this little gray caret sign here is right at the end
huh.
And here is the problem.
There is no colon.
We need to have a colon at the end of this for loop and now I think it works fine. Let's see: 0 times 2 is 0, 2 and
then 4.
All right.
So that was a pretty simple case of just accidentally forgetting to type the colon.
Great.
We are doing great let's see.
So now I'm creating two variables A and B and then it looks like I'm setting some result to be equal
to two times A is equal to or less than B and then printing that result.
So.
And here we get another invalid syntax error and I believe the problem here is that it should actually
be less than or equal to B.
Yep.
So now it works.
So that was a really simple case of just putting the less than sign on the wrong side of the equals
sign.
All right.
This is good.
We're making good progress here.
Let's see.
So first I'm going to check for the colon because we got stung with that one before.
All right.
So let's see what this one says.
Still something going on here... huh...
And now here the problem is that someone wrote if and then then I don't know who wrote this.
Probably someone who's not a very good programmer.
Now these kinds of statements, these kinds of control statements are sometimes called if then statements
and in some computer languages you actually do need to put a "then" statement here.
But in python you don't; you just make the if statement, you write the word if and then you put the
conditional, which evaluates to true or false, and then the colon.
All right.
Good.
Fifty is greater than 40.
Well it's not quite time to celebrate.
We have a little bit more to go before we can celebrate.
It's almost time to celebrate.
I'll even change this here.
Almost time to celebrate.
There you go. Okay so here it looks like what we're trying to do is input a number and then just print
out that number.
Pretty straightforward, except we get another invalid syntax error. And here,
the issue is that what goes inside the input to the input function has to be a string.
This is not a string; I'm just writing in words here and you can see that Python is even getting confused
because python is actually thinking that I'm trying to use the input function as the input into the
input function.
All right.
So what we need to do is encase all of this text in single quotes and now we get,
So let's say about forty two and Okay this works. Next cell.
So here we are at Division.
It looks like we're trying to divide 4 by 10.
And now we get an error says unexpected character after line continuation character.
So even without knowing anything about what that means you might be able to guess that we are just having
the wrong slash orientation here.
In fact you can see if you look down at this slash here this is purple.
Notice this is highlighted purple just like the plus sign.
And this is not this is thin and black.
So in fact, we need the percent... or sorry, the division signed to be represented using a forward slash.
All right let's go down to this one here.
This seems pretty straightforward.
I actually don't see immediately what the error is.
All right.
So let's try to input a number.
I'm gonna say four and another number.
How about three and this says the sum of four and three is forty three.
Okay so maybe your little sister thinks that four plus three is forty three, but actually this is not
the right answer.
This is, in fact, a really similar problem that we encountered at the very very beginning the very first
problem.
So the issue here is that these numbers get input it has strings they get represented as strings but
we need them to be actual numbers.
So therefore you can either encase the input function here in the function int, which will convert it
to an integer or the function float which will convert it into a floating point number or a number that
has a decimal point.
All right.
So I used float.
So let's try this again.
Input a number about four point four and another number will be three point three.
Okay.
And now this says the sum of four point four and three point three is seven point seven.
That is mathematically correct.
We're doing good.
We're getting close.
Let's see.
I don't immediately see something wrong here, this part of the latex code certainly looks good with the
double backslash.
Oh but we have an error it says expected EOF is for end of file while passing.
Now there's a little visualization tool in Python or in Jupiter and IPython notebooks.
Now notice that this set of parentheses here is black but when I put the cursor on it it turns green
and the corresponding other parenthesis also turns green.
So this is green that's handy it lets me match which parentheses goes with which other pair.
So now when I put the cursor here I see this is green.
And then this is highlighted green here.
But that means that we are actually missing the end parenthesis for this parenthesis here.
And you can see that as well when I click on it it turns red.
So I'm going to put another parenthesis here and you also know from this little gray caret symbol that
the problem was here at this part of the code.
All right.
And now we get a sensible answer.
Nine divided by three is three.
All right next one I'm already going to check.
So actually the parentheses are correct here.
You can see there are three, as there should be.
So what could be the problem on this line?
The problem on this line is that nine divided by three is definitely not equal to two point two five.
So in fact, in this case there is no programming error.
There's nothing wrong with the latex code.
There's nothing wrong with the python code.
This is a mathematical error.
And the problem here is that I wrote nine and three for the numerator and denominator but then here
I wrote equals nine divided by four.
So it's pretty simple fix.
You could write you could change this three to be four.
You could have also changed this for it to be three.
Of course an even better solution would be to set variables, for example to say you know a equals nine
and then B equals four.
And then of course replacing this with a and b and so forth.
Okay.
And then we get to the very last exercise. I'm having so much fun here!
I'm almost sorry that they're done.
So this is a while loop and a while loop is different from a for loop. A for loop operates by let's see
So here's a for loop.
So the way that a for loop works is that all the code inside the loop gets run only a number of times
corresponding to whatever...
however many elements in this variable after the in keyword.
A while loop is different.
The while loop has a conditional, it's a boolean conditional here.
So it's either true or false.
And all the code inside the while loop is run continuously over and over and over again until this conditional
becomes false.
So as long as this is true this code will keep running.
So let's see what happens when I run this.
Oh we get lots and lots of ones.
Look at this.
This is ridiculous.
How many ones are here :(
In fact, I'm going to have to go up here press Kernel, and interrupt.
So I forced the kernel to stop.
So what's happening here is that I set the variables t to be equal to 1 and then I'm just printing out
T which is 1, and I don't ever do anything with t; I don't update it, I don't say that t should be anything
else.
So that means that t is always less than 11 -- t is never not less than eleven.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is write t equals T plus 1.
So now each time we go through this loop each iteration of this while loop t is incremented.
So now I run this cell again and now we see t is equal to 1 through 10 and then essentially what happens
is we print t when it equals 10 and then t gets set to be T plus 1, which becomes 11 and then the python
will.
Will check this a boolean here, this conditional, and T is equal to eleven, which means that t is not
less than 11 which means that this is false.
So the while loop is finished. And it's interesting to compare the output for this while loop like this
where the print statement is first and the updating statement is second,
and that gives us the numbers 1 through 10, versus
If I would just swap the order here.
So it's exactly the same code; I've just swapped the order. And now we get the numbers two through eleven.
So I will let you ponder this why you get this difference between setting up the while loop like this
versus setting up the while loop like this.
But for now I'm going to call this video to a close.
I hope you enjoyed this, and I hope that you improved your python coding skills a bit by finding and
fixing all of the problems in this code.